Develop a new simulation (world)
--------------------------------

A simulation is an embedded domain in which agents behave. It is
represented in NegMAS by a ``World``. This tutorial will take you
through the process of developing a simple simulation (world).

A ``World`` in NegMAS is not just a multi-agent world simulation. It was
designed from the bottom up to simply the common tasks involved in
constructing negotiation driven simulations.

The simulation is divided into simulation steps (not to be confused with
negotiation rounds). At every step, agents are allowed to act
proactively by executing actions in the world, reading their state from
the world, or requesting/running negotiations with other agents.

The negotiation process follows the following steps:

1.  An agent requests a negotiation involving a set of agents (it may or
    may not be one of them) using either ``request_negotiation`` or
    ``run_negotiation`` methods (the later does not return until the
    negotiation is complete. The ``World`` can disable immediately
    running negotiations, or requesting negotiations that does not
    involve oneself, etc. The caller agent can also provide a
    ``Negotiator`` to represent it in this negotiation.
2.  All partners in the negotiation are asked to accept to start the
    negotiation through calls to ``respond_to_negotiation_request``. The
    can accept by returning a ``Negotiator`` object to represent them or
    reject.
3.  Negotiations start depending on the rules given by the ``World``.
    The default rule is to start negotiations only if ALL partners
    accepted the request but other rules like starting negotiations that
    are accepted by at least two partners are possible.
4.  The ``Mechanism`` objects are created by the ``World`` and
    negotiators supplied by all partners (that agreed to join the
    negotiation) are added to it. The ``World`` designer can fix the
    type of the negotiation mechanism to be used (e.g. ``SAOMechanism``)
    or it can leave the choice to individual agents requesting
    negotiations.
5.  The negotiation is run and its result is recorded either as a failed
    negotiation (if no agreement is reached) or as a ``Contract`` if an
    agreement is reached.
6.  It is possible for world designers to either make ``Contract``\ s
    binding upon agreement by having them automatically signed or to
    give agents one final chance to *sign* the contracts. Only signed
    contracts are considered binding.
7.  The ``World`` can also run a simulation that is affected by signed
    contracts. A common case is for contracts to have some *executing
    time* or a similar attribute that defines when do they become due.
8.  When a ``Contract`` becomes due, it is executed by the ``World`` as
    part of the simulation it is controlling. In some cases, the
    contract cannot be executed and this is considered a ``Breach``.
9.  The world processes breaches and may decide to apply penalties to
    agents that caused them (if that makes sense for the specific
    simulation being conducted).
10. Agents are informed about the final state of due contracts
    (i.e. whether they are executed successfully or breached).

Development Process
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To create a new world, you need to do the following steps:

1. Create a new ``AgentWorldInterface`` for your world (that inherits
   from ``AWI``) and provide easy to use methods that agents can use to
   access your world. A common functionality of the AWI is to confirm
   that negotiations make sense. We will see an example later in this
   tutorial
2. Create a new ``World`` class that inherits from the base ``World``
   and implement the required callback (your AWI from the first step
   will need to be registered in the world as will be shown later).
3. Create a base ``Agent`` class for your world that inherits from
   ``Agent`` and provides the basic functionality shared by all agents
   in your world (if any)

The Trips World
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Let’s consider a – not so simple – world. We have :math:`m` agents
representing people agreeing about where to spend their vacation
repeatedly. Every holiday season, an agent can request to negotiate with
one or more other agents trying to arrange a trip. Each trip is
described by the following attributes:

-  **Active**: Binary issue (either an active trip with lots of hiking,
   running ,etc or not)
-  **Duration**: Integer issue (between 1 and 7 days)
-  **Cost**: Continuous range issue (between 0.0 and 1.0)

All agents involved in a negotiation must agree for the trip to be
conducted. An agent can request at most :math:`n` negotiations in a
single season. Each agent has some fixed but unknown probability of not
honoring its agreement and failing to show up for the trip and only when
all agents involved in a trip show up does the trip actually happen with
each agent receiving its utility value as defined by its unchanging
utility function.

Let’s implement this world in NegMAS.

Implementing the Agent-World-Interface
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We will start by defining the interface between the world and the agent
as an AWI class

.. code:: ipython3

    class AWI(AgentWorldInterface):
        @property
        def n_negs(self):
            """Number of negotiations an agent can start in a step (holiday season)"""
            return self._world.neg_quota_step

        @property
        def agents(self):
            """List of all other agent IDs"""
            return list(_ for _ in self._world.agents.keys() if _ != self.agent.id)

        def request_negotiation(
            self, partners: List[str], negotiator: SAONegotiator
        ) -> bool:
            """A convenient way to request negotiations"""
            if self.agent.id not in partners:
                partners.append(self.agent.id)
            req_id = self.agent.create_negotiation_request(
                issues=self._world.ISSUES,
                partners=partners,
                negotiator=negotiator,
                annotation=dict(),
                extra=dict(negotiator_id=negotiator.id),
            )
            return self.request_negotiation_about(
                issues=self._world.ISSUES, partners=partners, req_id=req_id
            )

The minimum here is to define a way for agents to request negotiations
form the world. The base ``AgentWorldInterface`` has a
``request_negotiation_about`` method that can be used for this purpose
but it is too general and allows agents to set arbitrary issues and
negotiation mechanisms. Usually you will want to restrict the types of
negotiations allowed by defining a ``request_negotiation`` method which
decides as much as possible for the agent.

This is done here using the following method:

.. code:: python

       def request_negotiation(self, partners: List[str], negotiator: SAONegotiator) -> bool:
           ...

Here the agent is asked to provide only a list of ``partners`` and a
``negotiator`` to use.

1. The AWI will then make sure that the agent is added to the partners
   list if it was not already in it:

.. code:: python

       if self.agent.id not in partners:
           partners.append(self.agent.id)

2. A negotiation request is then created using
   ``create_negotiation_request`` of the agent connected to the AWI
   which is used to keep track of which requests are out there and which
   are accepted/rejected

.. code:: python

          req_id = self.agent.create_negotiation_request(
              issues=self._world.ISSUES,
              partners=partners,
              negotiator=negotiator,
              annotation=dict(),
              extra=dict(negotiator_id=negotiator.id),
          )

3. Finally, the AWI requests the negotiation from the world using the
   base ``request_negotiation_about`` method.

.. code:: python

       return self.request_negotiation_about(
           issues=self._world.ISSUES, partners=partners, req_id=req_id
       )

Other than this commonly provided method, the AWI provides two
properties that can be accessed by the agent, ``agents`` which returns
the IDs of all *other* agents in the world and ``n_negs`` which gives
the total number of negotiations that the agent can *start* in a single
step (holiday season).

Implement the base world class
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To implement the trips world, you will need to override the abstract
methods of ``World``. You will usually need also to override
``__init__`` to initialize your agent and ``join`` to set up any agent
specific information you need to keep. Here is the full implementation:

.. code:: ipython3

    class TripsWorld(World):
        ISSUES = [
            make_issue((0.0, 1.0), "cost"),
            make_issue(2, "active"),
            make_issue((1, 7), "duration"),
        ]

        def __init__(self, *args, **kwargs):
            """Initialize the world"""
            kwargs["awi_type"] = AWI
            kwargs["negotiation_quota_per_step"] = kwargs.get(
                "negotiation_quota_per_step", 8
            )
            kwargs["force_signing"] = True
            kwargs["default_signing_delay"] = 0
            super().__init__(*args, **kwargs)
            self._contracts: Dict[int, List[Contract]] = defaultdict(list)
            self._total_utility: Dict[str, float] = defaultdict(float)
            self._ufuns: Dict[str, UtilityFunction] = dict()
            self._breach_prob: Dict[str, float] = dict()

        def join(
            self,
            x: Agent,
            preferences: Preferences | None = None,
            breach_prob: float | None = None,
            **kwargs,
        ):
            """Define the ufun and breach-probability for each agent"""
            super().join(x, **kwargs)
            weights = np.random.rand(len(self.ISSUES)) - 0.5
            x.ufun = (
                LinearUtilityFunction(weights, reserved_value=0.0) if ufun is None else ufun
            )
            self._ufuns[x.id] = x.ufun
            self._breach_prob[x.id] = random() * 0.1 if breach_prob is None else breach_prob

        def simulation_step(self, stage: int = 0):
            """What happens in this world? Nothing"""
            pass

        def get_private_state(self, agent: Agent) -> dict:
            """What is the information available to agents? total utility points"""
            return dict(total_utility=self._total_utility[agent.id])

        def execute_action(
            self, action: Action, agent: Agent, callback: Callable | None = None
        ) -> bool:
            """Executing actions by agents? No actions available"""
            pass

        def on_contract_signed(self, contract: Contract) -> None:
            """Save the contract to be executed in the following hoiday season (step)"""
            super().on_contract_signed(contract)
            self._contracts[self.current_step + 1].append(contract)

        def executable_contracts(self):
            """What contracts are to be executed in the current step?
            Ones that were signed the previous step"""
            return self._contracts[self.current_step]

        def order_contracts_for_execution(
            self, contracts: Collection[Contract]
        ) -> Collection[Contract]:
            """What should be the order of contract execution? Random"""
            shuffle(contracts)
            return contracts

        def start_contract_execution(self, contract: Contract) -> Optional[Set[Breach]]:
            """What should happen when a contract comes due?
            1. Find out if it will be breached
            2. If not, add to each agent its utility from the trip
            """
            breaches = []
            for aid in contract.partners:
                if random() < self._breach_prob[aid]:
                    breaches.append(
                        Breach(
                            contract,
                            aid,
                            "breach",
                            victims=[_ for _ in contract.partners if _ != aid],
                        )
                    )
            if len(breaches) > 0:
                return set(breaches)
            for aid in contract.partners:
                self._total_utility[aid] += self._ufuns[aid](contract.agreement)
            return set()

        def complete_contract_execution(
            self, contract: Contract, breaches: List[Breach], resolution: Contract
        ) -> None:
            """What happens if a breach was resolved? Nothing. They cannot"""
            pass

        def delete_executed_contracts(self) -> None:
            """Removes all contracts for the current step"""
            if self._current_step in self._contracts.keys():
                del self._contracts[self.current_step]

        def contract_record(self, contract: Contract) -> Dict[str, Any]:
            """Convert the contract into a dictionary for saving"""
            return to_flat_dict(contract)

        def breach_record(self, breach: Breach) -> Dict[str, Any]:
            """Convert the breach into a dictionary for saving"""
            return to_flat_dict(breach)

        def contract_size(self, contract: Contract) -> float:
            """How good is a contract? Welfare"""
            if contract.agreement is None:
                return 0.0
            return sum(self._ufuns[aid](contract.agreement) for aid in contract.partners)

        def post_step_stats(self):
            for aid, agent in self.agents.items():
                self._stats[f"total_utility_{agent.name}"].append(self._total_utility[aid])

We will now inspect each of these methods in turn.

Constructing the world
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The first thing to do when constructing the world in ``__init__`` is to
call the ``World`` class constructor forcing some of the parameters.
This is done here:

.. code:: python

       kwargs["awi_type"] = AWI
       kwargs["negotiation_quota_per_step"] = kwargs.get("negotiation_quota_per_step", 8)
       kwargs["force_signing"] = True
       kwargs["default_signing_delay"] = 0
       super().__init__(*args, **kwargs)

Of note is setting the ``awi_type`` to the ``AWI`` class we have just
created. This allows agents to access members of this class through
their ``awi`` property as we will see later.

Moreover, we force the ``negotiation_quota_per_step`` to be no more than
8 (the default is :math:`\inf`) and force signing of all contracts which
will make contracts binding immediately once agreements are reached
through negotiation.

We then define four data-members that we keep track of:

.. code:: python

           self._contracts: Dict[int, List[Contract]] = defaultdict(list)
           self._total_utility: Dict[str, float] = defaultdict(float)
           self._ufuns: Dict[str, UtilityFunction] = dict()
           self._breach_prob: Dict[str, float] = dict()

-  \**_contracts*\* maps step number to the contracts to be executed in
   it.
-  \**_total_utility, \_ufuns, \_breach_prob*\* maps agent ID to the
   total utility it currently has, its utility function and its breach
   probability (the probability of not showing up for a trip).

Joining the world
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Agents join the world by calls to the ``join`` method. \* The first
thing to do is to call the base ``join`` method of the ``World`` class.
That is **essential** for the system to work properly. Whenever you
override a method that is not marked abstract, you **must** call the
base class version using ``super()``:

.. code:: python

       def join(
           self,
           x: Agent,
           preferences: Preferences | None = None,
           breach_prob: float | None = None,
           **kwargs
       ):
           """Define the ufun and breach-probability for each agent"""
           super().join(x, **kwargs)
           ...

-  We need to override the this method in order to set the utility
   function of the agent that just joined and its breach probability. In
   both cases, we use the value provided by the user if any and generate
   an appropriate random value if nothing is provided.

.. code:: python

       x.ufun = (
           LinearUtilityFunction(np.random.rand(len(self.ISSUES)) - 0.5)
           if ufun is None
           else ufun
       )
       self._ufuns[x.id] = x.ufun
       self._breach_prob[x.id] = random() * 0.1 if breach_prob is None else breach_prob

Simulation, action, and state
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ``TripsWorld`` does not have a simulation. Nothing really happens in
this world. This means we can just do nothing in the ``simulation_step``
method

.. code:: python

       def simulation_step(self, stage: int = 0):
           """What happens in this world? Nothing"""
           pass

Every world needs to define what is the private state of an agent
(available to it through ``self.awi.state``). In our world, the private
state of an agent is the total utility it collected so far.

.. code:: python

       def get_private_state(self, agent: Agent) -> dict:
           """What is the information available to agents? total utility points"""
           return dict(total_utility=self._total_utility[agent.id])

As we have no actual simulation, there are not actions that the agent
can execute in the world, so ``execute_action`` does nothing.

.. code:: python

       def execute_action(
           self, action: Action, agent: Agent, callback: Callable | None = None
       ) -> bool:
           """Executing actions by agents? No actions available"""
           pass

Contract Management
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ``TripsWorld`` is responsible of managing contracts. The base
``World`` class will take care of most of the process but it needs the
``TripsWorld`` to respond to some callbacks in order to manage contract
execution, storage, and optionally renegotiations of breached contracts.

The callbacks related to this are:

.. code:: python

       def on_contract_signed(self, contract: Contract) -> None:
           ...


       def executable_contracts(self) -> Collection[Contract]:
           ...


       def order_contracts_for_execution(
           self, contracts: Collection[Contract]
       ) -> Collection[Contract]:
           ...


       def start_contract_execution(self, contract: Contract) -> Optional[Set[Breach]]:
           ...


       def complete_contract_execution(
           self, contract: Contract, breaches: List[Breach], resolution: Contract
       ) -> None:
           ...


       def delete_executed_contracts(self) -> None:
           ...


       def contract_record(self, contract: Contract) -> Dict[str, Any]:
           ...


       def breach_record(self, breach: Breach) -> Dict[str, Any]:
           ...


       def contract_size(self, contract: Contract) -> float:
           ...

The names are almost self-explanatory and we will go through them one by
one:

1. **on_contract_signed** This method is called whenever a contract is
   signed (becomes binding). This is the only non-abstract method in the
   contract related set here but we need to override it in order to keep
   track of the execution time of the contract using:

.. code:: python

       self._contracts[self.current_step + 1].append(contract)

2. **executable_contracts** Should return a list of contracts that are
   due at the current step. We simply use the ``_contracts`` mapping we
   updated in ``on_contract_signed``:

.. code:: python

       return self._contracts[self.current_step]

3. **order_contracts_for_execution** The world is responsible of
   deciding that order at which contracts (returned from
   ``executable_contracts``) are executed, here we just shuffle them
   randomly and return them:

.. code:: python

       shuffle(contracts)
       return contracts

4. **start_contract_execution** Here we decide how to execute a
   contract. We first check whether each agent of the partners who
   signed the contract is going to show up using its breach-probability
   and record a breach for each such event. If there are any breaches,
   we stop processing because the trip did not take place:

.. code:: python

       breaches = []
       for aid in contract.partners:
           if random() < self._breach_prob[aid]:
               breaches.append(
                   Breach(
                       contract,
                       aid,
                       "breach",
                       victims=[_ for _ in contract.partners if _ != aid],
                   )
               )
       if len(breaches) > 0:
           return set(breaches)

If there are no breaches, the trip is assumed to execute successfully
and every agent (of the partners) is assigned the utility value from
that trip according to its utility function:

.. code:: python

       for aid in contract.partners:
           self._total_utility[aid] = self._ufuns[aid](contract.agreement)
       return set()

5. **complete_contract_execution** This method is only called in worlds
   that allow re-negotiation of breaches. As our world does not have the
   concept, we just do nothing here.
6. **delete_executed_contracts** This method is responsible of cleaning
   up all contracts that have been processed in the current step. We
   again use the mapping we constructed in ``__init__`` and updated in
   ``on_contract_signed``.

.. code:: python

       if self._current_step in self._contracts.keys():
           del self._contracts[self.current_step]

These six steps complete all processing of contracts. Nevertheless, we
still need to override three other methods to define how contracts and
breaches are stored and the *value* of a contract

-  **contract_record** should return a dictionary representing a
   contract. We simply convert it to a dictionary using a helper
   function from negmas ``to_flat_dict``:

.. code:: python

       return to_flat_dict(contract)

-  **breach_record** Same as contract record but for breaches. We do the
   same.

.. code:: python

       return to_flat_dict(breach)

-  **contract_size** Used to specify some sense of size for contracts.
   This is only used for statistics and does not affect the operation of
   the simulation. We define the contract size here as the welfar (total
   utility of all partners):

.. code:: python

       if contract.agreement is None:
           return 0.0
       return sum(self._ufuns[aid](contract.agreement) for aid in contract.partners)

This complete the world and agent-world-interface design. We can now
develop our base agent class.

Statisitcs
^^^^^^^^^^

The base ``World`` keeps track of negotiation related statistics
(e.g. how many negotiations were requested very step, how many
contracted were breached, etc). You can easily add to this set of
statistics by overloading ``post_step_stats`` (and the corresponding
``pre_step_stats`` if needed). In our world, we just add one custom
statistic: the total utility collected by the agent so far:

.. code:: python

       for aid, agent in self.agents.items():
           self._stats[f"total_utility_{agent.name}"].append(self._total_utility[aid])

Note that we used the agent name not ID to differentiate these
statistics. Because the system does not know or use our statistic, we
can use the name which will usually be easier to read when inspecting
these statistics as we will see in the following tutorial

Base Agent (Person)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Even though it is not strictly necessary (as with the case of
agent-world-interface), it is useful to provide a base agent that hides
unnecessary details from developers of agents targeting our
``TripsWorld``. This is the complete listing of our base agent:

.. code:: ipython3

    class Person(Agent, ABC):
        @abstractmethod
        def step(self):
            ...

        @abstractmethod
        def init(self):
            ...

        @abstractmethod
        def respond_to_negotiation_request(
            self,
            initiator: str,
            partners: List[str],
            mechanism: NegotiatorMechanismInterface,
        ) -> Optional[Negotiator]:
            ...

        def _respond_to_negotiation_request(
            self,
            initiator: str,
            partners: List[str],
            issues: List[Issue],
            annotation: Dict[str, Any],
            mechanism: NegotiatorMechanismInterface,
            role: Optional[str],
            req_id: Optional[str],
        ) -> Optional[Negotiator]:
            return self.respond_to_negotiation_request(initiator, partners, mechanism)

        def on_neg_request_rejected(self, req_id: str, by: Optional[List[str]]):
            pass

        def on_neg_request_accepted(
            self, req_id: str, mechanism: NegotiatorMechanismInterface
        ):
            pass

        def on_negotiation_failure(
            self,
            partners: List[str],
            annotation: Dict[str, Any],
            mechanism: NegotiatorMechanismInterface,
            state: MechanismState,
        ) -> None:
            pass

        def on_negotiation_success(
            self, contract: Contract, mechanism: NegotiatorMechanismInterface
        ) -> None:
            pass

        def set_renegotiation_agenda(
            self, contract: Contract, breaches: List[Breach]
        ) -> Optional[RenegotiationRequest]:
            pass

        def respond_to_renegotiation_request(
            self, contract: Contract, breaches: List[Breach], agenda: RenegotiationRequest
        ) -> Optional[Negotiator]:
            pass

        def on_contract_executed(self, contract: Contract) -> None:
            pass

        def on_contract_breached(
            self, contract: Contract, breaches: List[Breach], resolution: Optional[Contract]
        ) -> None:
            pass

The first thing, our abstract-base-class (ABC) does is defining the
abstract methods that must be implemented by any agent that is
compatible with the ``TripsWorld``.

The first two abstract methods are ``init`` and ``step`` called by the
world to initialize the agent (after its AWI is created) and at every
simulation step. These methods are not abstract in the base ``Agent``
class but we convert them to abstract methods to force all ``Person``
based agents to provide some implementation for them

.. code:: python

       @abstractmethod
       def step(self):
           ...


       @abstractmethod
       def init(self):
           ...

We then add a third method for responding to negotiation requests:

.. code:: python

       @abstractmethod
       def respond_to_negotiation_request(
           self,
           initiator: str,
           partners: List[str],
           mechanism: AgentMechanismInterface,
       ) -> Optional[Negotiator]:
           ...

``World`` and ``TripWorld`` classes know nothing about this method, our
base ``Person`` class will call it when it receives a request to respond
to a negotiation request from the world in
``_respond_to_negotiation_request`` (notice the underscore which
indicates that children should not modify this method):

.. code:: python

       return self.respond_to_negotiation_request(initiator, partners, mechanism)

This arrangement removes the need to pass several parameters of
``_respond_to_negotiation_request`` that are not of value for our
current simulation.

We provide a do-nothing implementation of all other callbacks expected
during the simulation. These are:

.. code:: python

       def on_neg_request_rejected(self, req_id: str, by: Optional[List[str]]):
           ...


       def on_neg_request_accepted(self, req_id: str, mechanism: AgentMechanismInterface):
           ...


       def on_negotiation_failure(
           self,
           partners: List[str],
           annotation: Dict[str, Any],
           mechanism: AgentMechanismInterface,
           state: MechanismState,
       ):
           ...


       def on_negotiation_success(
           self, contract: Contract, mechanism: AgentMechanismInterface
       ):
           ...


       def set_renegotiation_agenda(
           self, contract: Contract, breaches: List[Breach]
       ) -> Optional[RenegotiationRequest]:
           ...


       def respond_to_renegotiation_request(
           self, contract: Contract, breaches: List[Breach], agenda: RenegotiationRequest
       ) -> Optional[Negotiator]:
           ...


       def on_contract_executed(self, contract: Contract):
           ...


       def on_contract_breached(self, contract: Contract, breaches: List[Breach]):
           ...

These callbacks are called by the world at key points of the process
from a negotiation request to an exeucted/breached contract. The names
are self-explanatory but we summarize them here:

-  **on_neg_request_rejectect/accepted** Called to tell the agent about
   the fate of a negotiation request it initiated (using
   ``request_negotiation``). Agents can access the current requests
   using their ``negotiation_requests`` property to get more information
   about the request if needed.
-  **on_negotiation_failure.success** Called to tell the agent about the
   fate of negotiations it engaged in (using its own negotiators). The
   agent can access the current set of negotiations using its
   ``negotiations`` property.
-  **set_renegotiation_agenda/respond_to_renegotiation_request** Only
   needed for worlds that allow re-negotiation of breached contracts.
-  **on_contract_executed/breached** Called to tell the agent about the
   fate of a contract it signed.
-  There is also an **on_contracts_finalized** callback that is used to
   tell the agent about which of its agreements have been signed by
   everyone and became binding and which were canceled because one or
   more of the partners refused to sign it. In our world, singing is
   forced so this callback is not necessary and it is not abstract so we
   did not implement it.

We now have all the ingredients to create specific agents and start
simulations. In the next tutorial we will develop an agent for this
world and use it to test it.

[ADVANCED] Most Important Functionality Provided by ``World``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This section is more of a reference. You need not go through it in
details in your first read

You can control several options about how your world simulation runs by
setting constructor parameters of the ``World`` class (as we did earlier
with ``force_signing``). Here we discuss briefly some of the most
important options.

General
^^^^^^^

These are general parameters that do not directly affect how the world
works. The most important of these are ``name`` to set a name for the
world, and ``awi_type`` which controls the type of AWI used to connect
agents to it.

-  name: World Name
-  bulletin_board: A bulletin board object to use. If not given one will
   be created
-  awi_type: The type used for agent world interfaces (must descend from
   or behave like ``AgentWorldInterface`` )
-  info: A dictionary of key-value pairs that is kept within the world
   but never used. It is useful for storing contextual information. For
   example, when running tournaments.

Simulation parameters
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

These options control how the simulation is run and the order of
operations in each simulation step.

-  n_steps: Total simulation time in steps

-  time_limit: Real-time limit on the simulation

-  operations: A list of ``Operations`` to run in order during every
   simulation step. You can use this parameter to set the order of
   events in your simulation. For example, you can choose when
   negotiations run relative to the ``simulation_step`` of your world.
   Available operations include:

   -  StatsUpdate: Updating statistics stored in ``_stats`` by calling
      ``update_stats`` of the ``World`` class. Each time this operation
      is conducted a higher ``stage`` is passed to the ``update_stats``
      method (the first such call will by default run ``pre_step_stats``
      and later calls will call ``post_step_stats`` but you can change
      that.
   -  SimulationStep: Calling ``simulation_step`` of the ``World``
      class. Each time this operation is conducted a higher ``stage`` is
      passed to ``simulation_step``.
   -  Negotiations: Running all registered negotiations
   -  ContractSigning: Sign contracts (if enabled)
   -  ContractExecution: Execute contracts
   -  AgentSteps: Step all agents by calling their ``step`` method

Negotiation Parameters
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Controls all negotiations conducted during the simulation.

-  negotiation_speed: The number of negotiation steps per simulation
   step. None means infinite
-  neg_n_steps: Maximum number of steps allowed for a negotiation.
-  neg_step_time_limit: Time limit for single step of the negotiation
   protocol.
-  neg_time_limit: Real-time limit on each single negotiation
-  negotiation_quota_per_step: Number of negotiations an agent is
   allowed to start per step
-  negotiation_quota_per_simulation: Number of negotiations an agent is
   allowed to start in the simulation
-  start_negotiations_immediately: If true negotiations start
   immediately when registered rather than waiting for the next step
-  mechanisms: The mechanism types allowed in this world associated with
   each keyword arguments to be passed to it. This is a dictionary
   mapping a class name defining a mechanism to the parameters to use by
   default for that mechanism. For example, to allow both stacked
   alternating offers (with some custom setting) and the veto single
   text mechanisms in your world, you can use something like:

.. code:: python

       super().__init__(
           mechanisms={
               "negmas.sao.SAOMechanism": dict(offering_is_accepting=False),
               "negmas.st.STVetoMechanism": dict(),
           },
           ...,
       )

Signing parameters
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

After negotiations are concluded with agreements, it is possible to have
an extra signing step to confirm these agreements before they become
binding contracts. This gives agents central control over the agreements
reached by their negotiators. You can control whether or not this step
is needed for any world simulation and how confirmation (i.e. signing)
is done through these parameters.

-  default_signing_delay: The default number of steps between contract
   conclusion and signing it. Only takes effect if ``force_signing`` is
   ``False``
-  force_signing: If true, agents are not asked to sign contracts. They
   are forced to do so. In this case, ``default_singing_delay`` is not
   effective and signature is immediate
-  batch_signing: If true, contracts are signed in batches not
   individually

Breach Processing
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When contracts fail to execute, breaches occur. You can control what
happens when breaches occur using this parameter.

-  breach_processing: How to handle breaches. Can be any of
   ``BreachProcessing`` values. Three options are available:

   -  No processing. In this case, the breach is just reported to the
      breach-list on the bulletin board and that is it.
   -  Victim, then perpetrator. In this case victims of the breach are
      given the chance to propose a resolution followed by the
      perpetrator.
   -  Renegotiation, where a complete negotiation session is conducted
      to resolve the breach.

Logging
^^^^^^^

NegMAS supports both general logs through the ``log*`` methods of the
``World`` class and agent specific logs through the ``agent_log*``
methods of the AWI. These parameters control logging. The default
logging location is ``~/negmas/logs``.

-  log_folder: Folder to save all logs
-  log_to_file: If true, will log to a file
-  log_file_name: Name of the log file
-  log_file_level: The log-level to save to file (WARNING, ERROR, INFO,
   DEBUG, CRITICAL, …)
-  log_ufuns: Log utility functions
-  log_negotiations: Log all negotiation events
-  log_to_screen: Whether to log to screen
-  log_screen_level: The log-level to show on screen (WARNING, ERROR,
   INFO, DEBUG, CRITICAL, …)
-  no_logs: If True, All logging will be disabled no matter what other
   options are given.
-  log_stats_every: If nonzero and positive, the period of saving stats
-  construct_graphs: If true, information needed to draw graphs using
   ``draw`` method are kept.

What to save
^^^^^^^^^^^^

These settings greatly affect the memory consumption of the simulation.
It tells NegMAS what exactly do you need to save in-memory.

-  save_signed_contracts: Save all signed contracts
-  save_cancelled_contracts: Save all canceled contracts
-  save_negotiations: Save all negotiation records
-  save_resolved_breaches: Save all resolved breaches
-  save_unresolved_breaches: Save all unresolved breaches

Exception Handling
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

It is inevitable that exceptions will happen in agent code or the
simulation. This set of parameters control how to handle these
exceptions.

-  ignore_agent_exceptions: Ignore agent exceptions and keep running
-  ignore_mechanism_exceptions: If true, all mechanism exceptions are
   ignored and the mechanism is aborted
-  ignore_simulation_exceptions: Ignore simulation exceptions and keep
   running
-  ignore_contract_execution_exceptions: Ignore contract execution
   exceptions and keep running
-  safe_stats_monitoring: Never throw an exception for a failure to save
   stats or because of a Stats Monitor object

Checkpoints
^^^^^^^^^^^

NegMAS can keep checkpoints of the world simulation that can be used to
recover and continue the simulation later. These checkpoints are not
stored by default but you can enable them and control their frequency
and location using this set of parameters

-  checkpoint_every: The number of steps to checkpoint after. Set to <=
   0 to disable
-  checkpoint_folder: The folder to save checkpoints into. Set to None
   to disable
-  checkpoint_filename: The base filename to use for checkpoints
   (multiple checkpoints will be prefixed with step number).
-  single_checkpoint: If true, only the most recent checkpoint will be
   saved.
-  extra_checkpoint_info: Any extra information to save with the
   checkpoint in the corresponding json file as a dictionary with string
   keys
-  exist_ok: IF true, checkpoints override existing checkpoints with the
   same filename.

We can now continue to the next tutorials in which we will develop
agents for your newly created world.



Download :download:`Notebook<notebooks/05.develop_new_simulation.ipynb>`.


Download :download:`Notebook<notebooks/05.develop_new_simulation.ipynb>`.


Download :download:`Notebook<notebooks/05.develop_new_simulation.ipynb>`.
