
Develop a factory manager (agent) for the SCM world
---------------------------------------------------

This tutorial describes how to develop an agent for the SCM world, test
it, and submit it to the ANAC 2019 SCM league.

The first step is to install negmas

.. code:: bash

    pip install negmas

Once you have this library installed, you can start developing your
factory manager:

You are told that you cannot instantiate your newly created class as did
not implement the abstract (required) method ``on_negotiation_request``.
That is actually the ONLY abstract method you need to implement.

.. code:: ipython3

    from negmas.apps.scml import DoNothingFactoryManager
    import yaml
    yaml.warnings({'YAMLLoadWarning': False}) # avoid a dask warning in newest yaml.
    class MyFactoryManager(DoNothingFactoryManager):
        """My factory manager"""

As the
`documentation <http://www.yasserm.com/negmas/negmas.apps.scml.html?highlight=on_negotiation_request#negmas.apps.scml.SCMLAgent.on_negotiation_request>`__
states, this function is called whenever your factory manager receives a
request from another agent to negotiate. You can either return ``None``
if you do not want to accept this negotiation or create a ``Negotiator``
that represents your agent in it.

Your do-nothing agent is almost ready. Let's try it:

The property ``stats`` in ``World`` gives you several statistics about
the world for every time-step of the simulation.

Let's check the contracts of this world:

Let's try to run a tournament with this do-nothing agent against the
built-in greedy agent:

.. code:: ipython3

    from negmas.apps.scml.utils import anac2019_tournament
    from negmas.apps.scml import GreedyFactoryManager
    
    results = anac2019_tournament(competitors=(MyFactoryManager, GreedyFactoryManager)
                                  , agent_names_reveal_type=True, n_runs_per_config=1
                                  # , n_steps=10  # uncomment this for a faster test
                                 )

You can see the scores that each individual factory manager got (just a
random sample):

.. code:: ipython3

    results.scores.head()

You can also check the total scores for each factory manager type:

.. code:: ipython3

    results.total_scores

If you want, you can check if these differences are statistically
significant using a t-test:

.. code:: ipython3

    results.ttest

So the greedy factory manager is better than the do-nothing factory
manager getting an average profit of *15%* compared with the expected
nothing (*0%*) for the do-nothing factory manager (as expected).
Moreover, this difference is statistically significant as the p-value is
< *0.000001*.

Or, let's just find out who was the winner(s):

.. code:: ipython3

    results.winners

and what was its/their score:

.. code:: ipython3

    print(results.winners_scores)

This information and much more is also stored in a log folder that gives
details of every world and total scores, etc. The default location of
this log folder is under negmas/logs/tournaments in your HOME directory
(this can be changed by passing a ``tournament_path`` to the
``anac2019_tournamet`` function.

The information stored in this folder is:

+------+------+------+
| File | Form | Cont |
| /Fol | at   | ent  |
| der  |      |      |
| Name |      |      |
+======+======+======+
| conf | FOLD | Cont |
| igs  | ER   | ains |
|      |      | one  |
|      |      | json |
|      |      | file |
|      |      | for  |
|      |      | each |
|      |      | worl |
|      |      | d    |
|      |      | run  |
|      |      | trie |
|      |      | d    |
|      |      | duri |
|      |      | ng   |
|      |      | the  |
|      |      | tour |
|      |      | name |
|      |      | nt.  |
|      |      | You  |
|      |      | can  |
|      |      | re-r |
|      |      | un   |
|      |      | this |
|      |      | worl |
|      |      | d    |
|      |      | usin |
|      |      | g    |
|      |      | ``ru |
|      |      | n_wo |
|      |      | rld` |
|      |      | `    |
|      |      | func |
|      |      | tion |
|      |      | in   |
|      |      | the  |
|      |      | ``to |
|      |      | urna |
|      |      | ment |
|      |      | ``   |
|      |      | modu |
|      |      | le.  |
+------+------+------+
| para | JSON | The  |
| ms.j |      | para |
| son  |      | mete |
|      |      | rs   |
|      |      | used |
|      |      | to   |
|      |      | crea |
|      |      | te   |
|      |      | this |
|      |      | tour |
|      |      | name |
|      |      | nt   |
+------+------+------+
| scor | CSV  | Scor |
| es.c |      | es   |
| sv   |      | of   |
|      |      | ever |
|      |      | y    |
|      |      | agen |
|      |      | t    |
|      |      | in   |
|      |      | ever |
|      |      | y    |
|      |      | worl |
|      |      | d    |
+------+------+------+
| tota | CSV  | Scor |
| l\_s |      | es   |
| core |      | of   |
| s.cs |      | ever |
| v    |      | y    |
|      |      | agen |
|      |      | t    |
|      |      | **ty |
|      |      | pe** |
|      |      | aver |
|      |      | aged |
|      |      | over |
|      |      | all  |
|      |      | runs |
+------+------+------+
| winn | CSV  | Winn |
| ers. |      | er   |
| csv  |      | *typ |
|      |      | es*  |
|      |      | and  |
|      |      | thei |
|      |      | r    |
|      |      | aver |
|      |      | age  |
|      |      | scor |
|      |      | es   |
+------+------+------+
| ttes | CSV  | Resu |
| t.cs |      | lts  |
| v    |      | of a |
|      |      | fact |
|      |      | oria |
|      |      | l    |
|      |      | TTES |
|      |      | T    |
|      |      | comp |
|      |      | arin |
|      |      | g    |
|      |      | the  |
|      |      | perf |
|      |      | orma |
|      |      | nce  |
|      |      | of   |
|      |      | all  |
|      |      | agen |
|      |      | t    |
|      |      | *typ |
|      |      | es*  |
+------+------+------+

Other than these files, a folder with the same number as the
corresponding config file in the configs folder, keeps full
statistics/log of every world with the following contents:

+------+------+------+
| File | Form | Cont |
| Name | at   | ent  |
+======+======+======+
| all\ | CSV  | A    |
| _con |      | reco |
| trac |      | rd   |
| ts.c |      | of   |
| sv   |      | all  |
|      |      | cont |
|      |      | ract |
|      |      | s    |
+------+------+------+
| cont | CSV  | A    |
| ract |      | reco |
| s\_f |      | rd   |
| ull\ |      | of   |
| _inf |      | all  |
| o.cs |      | cont |
| v    |      | ract |
|      |      | s    |
|      |      | with |
|      |      | adde |
|      |      | d    |
|      |      | info |
|      |      | rmat |
|      |      | ion  |
|      |      | abou |
|      |      | t    |
|      |      | the  |
|      |      | CFPs |
+------+------+------+
| canc | CSV  | Cont |
| elle |      | ract |
| d\_c |      | s    |
| ontr |      | that |
| acts |      | were |
| .csv |      | canc |
|      |      | elle |
|      |      | d    |
|      |      | beca |
|      |      | use  |
|      |      | one  |
|      |      | part |
|      |      | ner  |
|      |      | refu |
|      |      | sed  |
|      |      | to   |
|      |      | sign |
|      |      | it   |
+------+------+------+
| sign | CSV  | Cont |
| ed\_ |      | ract |
| cont |      | s    |
| ract |      | that |
| s.cs |      | were |
| v    |      | actu |
|      |      | ally |
|      |      | sign |
|      |      | ed   |
+------+------+------+
| nego | CSV  | A    |
| tiat |      | reco |
| ions |      | rd   |
| .csv |      | of   |
|      |      | all  |
|      |      | nego |
|      |      | tiat |
|      |      | ions |
+------+------+------+
| brea | CSV  | A    |
| ches |      | reco |
| .csv |      | rd   |
|      |      | of   |
|      |      | all  |
|      |      | brea |
|      |      | ches |
+------+------+------+
| stat | CSV  | Help |
| s.cs |      | ful  |
| v    |      | stat |
|      |      | isti |
|      |      | cs   |
|      |      | abou |
|      |      | t    |
|      |      | the  |
|      |      | stat |
|      |      | e    |
|      |      | of   |
|      |      | the  |
|      |      | worl |
|      |      | d    |
|      |      | at   |
|      |      | ever |
|      |      | y    |
|      |      | time |
|      |      | step |
|      |      | (e.g |
|      |      | .    |
|      |      | N.   |
|      |      | nego |
|      |      | tiat |
|      |      | ions |
|      |      | ,    |
|      |      | N.   |
|      |      | Cont |
|      |      | ract |
|      |      | s    |
|      |      | Exec |
|      |      | uted |
|      |      | ,    |
|      |      | etc) |
|      |      | in   |
|      |      | CSV  |
|      |      | form |
|      |      | at   |
+------+------+------+
| stat | JSON | Help |
| s.js |      | ful  |
| on   |      | stat |
|      |      | isti |
|      |      | cs   |
|      |      | abou |
|      |      | t    |
|      |      | the  |
|      |      | stat |
|      |      | e    |
|      |      | of   |
|      |      | the  |
|      |      | worl |
|      |      | d    |
|      |      | at   |
|      |      | ever |
|      |      | y    |
|      |      | time |
|      |      | step |
|      |      | (e.g |
|      |      | .    |
|      |      | N.   |
|      |      | nego |
|      |      | tiat |
|      |      | ions |
|      |      | ,    |
|      |      | N.   |
|      |      | Cont |
|      |      | ract |
|      |      | s    |
|      |      | Exec |
|      |      | uted |
|      |      | ,    |
|      |      | etc) |
|      |      | in   |
|      |      | JSON |
|      |      | form |
|      |      | at   |
+------+------+------+
| para | JSON | The  |
| ms.j |      | argu |
| son  |      | ment |
|      |      | s    |
|      |      | used |
|      |      | to   |
|      |      | run  |
|      |      | the  |
|      |      | worl |
|      |      | d    |
+------+------+------+
| logs | TXT  | A    |
| .txt |      | log  |
|      |      | file |
|      |      | givi |
|      |      | ng   |
|      |      | deta |
|      |      | ils  |
|      |      | of   |
|      |      | most |
|      |      | impo |
|      |      | rtan |
|      |      | t    |
|      |      | even |
|      |      | ts   |
|      |      | duri |
|      |      | ng   |
|      |      | the  |
|      |      | simu |
|      |      | lati |
|      |      | on   |
+------+------+------+

To develop a more useful agent, you will need to override one or more of
the available callbacks in ``FactroyManager`` and use methods available
in the ``SCMLAWI`` (SCML Agent World Interface) to act in the world in
order to maximize your profit.

Most important callbacks:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The most important callbacks that your class is expected to override to
be useful as a factory manager are the following:

-  ``init()`` Called after the world is initialized, but before any
   simulation steps.
-  ``step()`` Called in the simulation loop. Simulates one step of the
   agent’s logic. You can use this call to be *proactive*.
-  ``on_new_cfp()`` Called whenever a new Call for Proposals (CFP) is
   published on the bulletin board. The agent can specify a condition
   (e.g., buy CFPs only) such that only those CFPs that satisfy this
   condition will trigger this callback. By default your agent will only
   receive CFPs about products that it can use for production or can
   produce. You can override that by changing the
   ``insteresting_products`` property of your agent (probably in
   ``init()``). This callback can be used for implementing *reactive*
   behavior.
-  ``on_cfp_removed()`` Called whenever a CFP is removed from the
   bulletin board.
-  ``on_negotiation_request_accepted()/on_negotiation_request_rejected()``
   Called when a negotiation request initiated by the agent is
   accepted/rejected.
-  ``on_negotiation_success()``/``on_negotiation_failure()`` Called when
   a negotiation the agent is involved in terminates.
-  ``sign_contract()`` Called by the simulator when it is time to sign a
   contract. The agent can refuse to sign. By default, agents sign the
   contract.
-  ``on_contract_signed()``/``on_contract_canelled()`` Called when a
   contract the agent is party to is signed/cancelled (contracts will be
   canceled if any of the partners party to it refused to sign it).
-  ``on_production_failure()`` Called whenever a production command
   scheduled by the agent cannot be executed (e.g. for lack of funds or
   need of input products).

More details
~~~~~~~~~~~~

**You can download a skeleton for developing your factory manager in
either python or java `here <http://www.yasserm.com/scml/scml.zip>`__.**

For more details, refer to `the detailed description of the SCM
world <http://www.yasserm.com/scml/scml.pdf>`__ and the ``Agent``,
``SCMLAgent``, and ``FactoryManager`` documentation at `NegMAS library
documentation <http://negmas.readthedocs.io>`__

What can the agent do and know?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The agent can act by calling various methods of its ``awi`` member
(Agent World Interface). The most important of these are:

-  ``request_negotiation()`` Requests a negotiation with another partner
-  ``register_interest()`` / ``unregister_interest`` By default the
   agent will receive ``on_*_cfp`` callbacks only on products that its
   factory consumes or produces. To override this behavior, you can use
   these two methods of the ``awi``.
-  ``register_cfp()`` / ``remove_cfp()`` Registers/removes a call for
   proposals indicating interest in buying/selling some product and
   giving the negotiation issues (e.g. deliver time, unit cost,
   quantity, penalty, signing delay).
-  ``evaluate_insurance()`` / ``buy_insurance()`` Gets the insurance
   premium for some potential contract or buys one
-  ``execute()`` Executes an action in the world. The only supported
   actions are scheduling a production process to run at some future
   time-step, stopping (or canceling) a previously issued run command.

The agent can also access some useful information through its ``awi``'s
properties. Some of the most important such properties are:

-  ``state`` The state of the factory giving its current storage, cash
   in wallet, and standing loans as well as all scheduled production
   commands.
-  ``n_steps`` World simulation length
-  ``current_step`` Current world simulation step
-  ``products``/``processes`` Information about products/processes
   defined in this world (these are also accessible through local
   properties of the ``FactoryManager``
-  ``cfps`` All calls for proposals currently published in the bulletin
   board
-  ``breaches`` All breaches currently published in the bulletin board

Participation in the ANAC 2019 SCM league
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Now, you completed the development of your factory manager, tested it by
running it in worlds and tournaments, what exactly should you do to
participate in the SCM league @ ANAC 2019:

You need to submit the following items:

-  Names of all members of the team with their affiliations and email
   addresses
-  Either a single python file with the whole implementation of your
   agent with any supporting code or a zip file with a single folder
   containing your code. In the later case, you will need to indicate
   the class name of your factory manager. Any factory manager names are
   accepted except (Insurance, Bank, MFactoryManager, CFactoryManager).
-  A 2-pages academic report about your factory manager. Please check
   the submission website for details about this report.

That is it folks! You can now start developing your own factory manager.
Have fun.

**You can download a skeleton for developing your factory manager in
either python or java `here <http://www.yasserm.com/scml/scml.zip>`__.**

More Information
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For more information, please refer to the links in the
`CFP <http://www.yasserm.com/scml/cfp_scml.pdf>`__




Download :download:`Notebook<notebooks/07.develop_scml_agent.ipynb>`.


